How to Run ScratchRun/QuitTo run Scratch, double-click on "Scratch.exe" or "MacScratch".To exit, use the Windows close box or the Mac Quit command.Essential FilesOn windows, need at least these files:  squeak.image  Scratch.exeMac users need at least these files:  squeak.image  MacScratch  JPEGReadWriter2Plugin  mpeg3PluginThese files should all be in the same folder.Getting StartedAfter you've started Scratch, you can use the file menu (the buttonon the left side of the Scratch title bar) to invoke the "open..."command. Choose one of the project files ending in ".scratch" fromthe menu. Many projects have "reset" and "go" buttons to run them.To find out how they work, try double-clicking on the object thatseems to be most active (e.g., the cat picture in several of thedemos). This will bring up the blocks and scripts for that object.You can also mouse on the little square "thumbnail" area of one ofthe script viewer panes to get a menu of all the objects that canbe viewed. This menu indicates which objects have scripts.Getting StartedThere is little documentation on Scratch, but you should be ableto discover most of the features on your own. Here are a few of theless obvious things:  o the window pane dividers can be dragged  o the stop button stops everything--scripts, movies, sounds  o double-click on an object to see both it's blocks and scripts  o single-click on a purple button or script hat to start/stop  o right-click on object (option-click on Mac) to get a useful menu  o you can run a command right in the blocks pane by double-clicking it  o single-stepping can be useful to slow down and debug your scripts  o you can add your own variables to an object using the + button  o dragging a variable to the work pane turns it into a slider  o the "create button" in right-click menu of a script hat makes a purple button  o if the dot on a script hat turns red, that script has an error  o you can load your own picture into a sprite from a file  o the sound recorder and editor work best for sounds under a minute or two  o ImageBoxes can play MP3 files; that's the best way to deal with long sounds